Surfed, an interactive editor for free-form surfaces was published in CAD in 1976. fflittle4 was 1 of 4 authors and programmer.
Surfaces have been invented.
Ab-initio, blank screen to designed surfaces.
SurfEd is implemented on Win32 and linux boxes.  It is integration, implementation, schemes and mathematics.
Windows/OpenGl vs X11/Mesa
drag/drop with a 2 button wheel mouse.  keyboard for cheats.  Pause for effect (create or complexify)
Left button is basic 2d translate in plane of screen
Right button is basic 2d rotate of front of circumsphere.
Left add right changes up/down to out/in
right add left changes rotleft to spinCCwize
wheel deltas are added onto the log of uniform scale
the bezel is 0 at center, leftmost =-1, rightmost = +1.
a 3d cursor projects onto the usual 2d cursor. (the depth defaults to 0 and is updated by a pick)
Screen bezel in a 3d space is default object.  Actions are reversed to act on the environment of the bezel.
the default environment is an origin jack,  x,y,z spines red-cyan green-purple blue-yellow 
the origin can be picked and dragged. It is fixed in rotations/scales. It doesn't rotate.
'd' is a cheat. it changes the appearance of the cursor (BLACK). A black cursor picks an object to delete it.
deleting the origin exits SurfEd.
Pause for effect augments mouse buttons to drive a fsm.
Pause for effect is driven by the screen refresh from counting the basic display loop. Set up screen refresh drives update.
CREATE A JACK: Position 3d cursor. Left Button Down for a time without moving replaces 3dcursor with a created jack which the mouse can now move.
CREATE A SEGMENT: Pick a JACK (which replaces cursor and sets depth), wait without moving till cursor replaces jack which includes a rubber band SEGMENT and JACK
DELETE A JACK: pick it with a black cursor. Also deletes any SEGMENT it is in.
DELETE A SEGMENT: pick it with black but miss its endJacks.
Segment pick makes triangle, two new segments to 1 new jack,  wait makes a Bezier parabola instead.
a parabola spontaneously raises degree to bezier cubic.
bezier polygon vertices are draggable but don't fuze.  They are vectors and move with thier base jack.
a Normal is created by waiting on an edge create.
a Normal effects all bp vertices whose base is the normal's base jack
wait on a normal enables an effect toggle. It is possible to break/make a normals effect on a bp vertex.
a bezier polygon's middle segment is it pick. Picking 3 segments that join in order creates a triangle
a triangle has 3 barbs which look like bp vertices but hang on the middle of the cubic curve
barbs can be placed.
picking a curve middle equates (the direction) of two barbs
waiting on a barb causes it to cycle through its defaults
where two triangles share an edge and the bp vertices are coplanar and the barb directions are equated, the surface is smooth.
4-cycles work
file I/O (.obj) to one filename works as a cheat.
